


Security Intelligence and Awareness Glossary


***Note: Edited content very lightly. Entries below may be duplicated in another glossary and were retained here to maintain the connection to the adapted source information.




Letter: A

access
The ability and means to communicate with or otherwise interact with a system, to use system resources to handle information, to gain knowledge of the information the system contains, or to control system components and functions.

From: CNSSI 4009

access and identity management
Synonym(s): identity and access management

access control  
The process of granting or denying specific requests for or attempts to: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities.
Related Term(s): access control mechanism

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

access control mechanism  
Security measures designed to detect and deny unauthorized access and permit authorized access to an information system or a physical facility.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

active attack  
An actual assault perpetrated by an intentional threat source that attempts to alter a system, its resources, its data, or its operations.
Related Term(s): passive attack

Adapted from: IETF RFC 4949, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1

active content  
Software that is able to automatically carry out or trigger actions without the explicit intervention of a user.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Advanced Persistent Threat  
An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception).

From: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

adversary  
An individual, group, organization, or government that conducts or has the intent to conduct detrimental activities.
Related Term(s): threat agent, attacker

From: DHS Risk Lexicon

air gap  
To physically separate or isolate a system from other systems or networks (verb).
Extended Definition: The physical separation or isolation of a system from other systems or networks (noun).

alert  
A notification that a specific attack has been detected or directed at an organization’s information systems.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

All Source Intelligence 
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Analyzes threat information from multiple sources, disciplines, and agencies across the Intelligence Community. Synthesizes and places intelligence information in context; draws insights about the possible implications.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Analyze
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for highly specialized review and evaluation of incoming cybersecurity information to determine its usefulness for intelligence.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

antispyware software  
A program that specializes in detecting and blocking or removing forms of spyware.
Related Term(s): spyware

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary

antivirus software 
A program that monitors a computer or network to detect or identify major types of malicious code and to prevent or contain malware incidents. Sometimes by removing or neutralizing the malicious code.

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary

asset
A person, structure, facility, information, and records, information technology systems and resources, material, process, relationships, or reputation that has value.
Extended Definition: Anything useful that contributes to the success of something, such as an organizational mission; assets are things of value or properties to which value can be assigned.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon

asymmetric cryptography  
Synonym(s): public key cryptography

attack
An attempt to gain unauthorized access to system services, resources, or information, or an attempt to compromise system integrity.
Extended Definition: The intentional act of attempting to bypass one or more security services or controls of an information system.
Related Term(s): active attack, passive attack

From: NCSD Glossary. NTSSI 4009 (2000), CNSSI 4009

attack method  
The manner or technique and means an adversary may use in an assault on information or an information system.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NCSD Glossary

attack mode
Synonym(s): attack method

attack path  
The steps that an adversary takes or may take to plan, prepare for, and execute an attack.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NCSD Glossary

attack pattern  
Similar cyber events or behaviors that may indicate an attack has occurred or is occurring, resulting in a security violation or a potential security violation.
Extended Definition: For software, descriptions of common methods for exploiting software systems.
Related Term(s): attack signature

Adapted from: Oak Ridge National Laboratory Visualization Techniques for Computer Network Defense, MITRE's CAPEC web site

attack signature  
A characteristic or distinctive pattern that can be searched for or that can be used in matching to previously identified attacks.
Extended Definition: An automated set of rules for identifying a potential threat (such as an exploit or the presence of an attacker tool) and possible responses to that threat.
Related Term(s): attack pattern

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009, ISSG V1.2 Database

attack surface  
The set of ways in which an adversary can enter a system and potentially cause damage.
Extended Definition: An information system's characteristics that permit an adversary to probe, attack, or maintain presence in the information system.

Adapted from: Manadhata, P.K., & Wing, J.M. in Attack Surface Measurement; DHS personnel

attacker
An individual, group, organization, or government that executes an attack.
Extended Definition: A party acting with malicious intent to compromise an information system.
Related Term(s): adversary, threat agent

Adapted from: Barnum & Sethi (2006), NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1

authenticate
Related Term(s): authentication
authentication  
The process of verifying the identity or other attributes of an entity (user, process, or device).
Extended Definition: Also the process of verifying the source and integrity of data.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-21, NISTIR 7298

authenticity  
A property achieved through cryptographic methods of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted, resulting in confidence in the validity of a transmission, information or a message, or sender of information or a message.
Related Term(s): integrity, non-repudiation

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

authorization
A process of determining, by evaluating applicable access control information, whether a subject is allowed to have the specified types of access to a particular resource.
Extended Definition: The process or act of granting access privileges or the access privileges as granted.

From: OASIS SAML Glossary 2.0; Adapted from CNSSI 4009

availability  
The property of being accessible and usable upon demand.
Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, applies to assets such as information or information systems.
Related Term(s): confidentiality, integrity

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542

Letter: B

behavior monitoring  
Observing activities of users, information systems, and processes and measuring the activities against organizational policies and rule, baselines of normal activity, thresholds, and trends.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

behavioral monitoring  
Synonym(s): behavior monitoring

blacklist  
A list of entities that are blocked or denied privileges or access.
Related Term(s): whitelist

Adapted from: DHS personnel

Blue Team  
A group that defends an enterprise's information systems when mock attackers (i.e., the Red Team) attack, typically as part of an operational exercise conducted according to rules established and monitored by a neutral group (i.e., the White Team).
Extended Definition: Also, a group that conducts operational vulnerability evaluations and recommends mitigation techniques to customers who need an independent technical review of their cybersecurity posture.
Related Term(s): Red Team, White Team

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

bot
A computer connected to the Internet that has been surreptitiously / secretly compromised with malicious logic to perform activities under remote the command and control of a remote administrator.
Extended Definition: A member of a larger collection of compromised computers known as a botnet.  Search engines like Google use bots, also known as spiders, to crawl through websites in order to scan and rank pages.
Synonym(s): zombie
Related Term(s): botnet

bot herder
Synonym(s): bot master

bot master
The controller of a botnet that, from a remote location, provides direction to the compromised computers in the botnet.
Synonym(s): bot herder

botnet  
A collection of computers compromised by malicious code and controlled across a network.

bug  
An unexpected and relatively small defect, fault, flaw, or imperfection in an information system or device.

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary

Build Security In  
A set of principles, practices, and tools to design, develop, and evolve information systems and software that enhance resistance to vulnerabilities, flaws, and attacks.

Adapted from: Trustworthy Cyberspace: Strategic Plan for the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Program (2011), US-CERT's Build Security In website.

Letter: C

capability  
The means to accomplish a mission, function, or objective.
Related Term(s): intent

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon

ciphertext  
Data or information in its encrypted form.
Related Term(s): plaintext

From: CNSSI 4009

cloud computing  
A model for enabling on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing capabilities or resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-145

Collect & Operate
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for specialized denial and deception operations and collection of cybersecurity information that may be used to develop intelligence.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Collection Operations
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Executes collection using appropriate strategies and within the priorities established through the collection management process.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

computer network defense
The actions taken to defend against unauthorized activity within computer networks.

From: CNSSI 4009

Computer Network Defense Analysis  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Uses defensive measures and information collected from a variety of sources to identify, analyze, and report events that occur or might occur within the network in order to protect information, information systems, and networks from threats.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Computer Network Defense Infrastructure Support
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Tests, implements, deploys, maintains, reviews, and administers the infrastructure hardware and software that are required to effectively manage the computer network defense service provider network and resources; monitors network to actively remediate unauthorized activities.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

confidentiality
A property that information is not disclosed to users, processes, or devices unless they have been authorized to access the information.
Extended Definition: Preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.
Related Term(s): availability, integrity

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542

consequence
The effect of an event, incident, or occurrence.
Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, the effect of a loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability of information or an information system on an organization's operations, its assets, on individuals, other organizations, or on national interests.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, National Infrastructure Protection Plan, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Continuity of Operations Plan
A document that sets forth procedures for the continued performance of core capabilities and critical operations during any disruption or potential disruption.
Related Term(s): Business Continuity Plan, Disaster Recovery Plan, Contingency Plan

Adapted from: CPG 101, CNSSI 4009

critical infrastructure  
The systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to society that the incapacity or destruction of such may have a debilitating impact on the security, economy, public health or safety, environment, or any combination of these matters.
Related Term(s): key resource

Adapted from: National Infrastructure Protection Plan

cryptanalysis 
The operations performed in defeating or circumventing cryptographic protection of information by applying mathematical techniques and without an initial knowledge of the key employed in providing the protection.
Extended Definition: The study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat or circumvent cryptographic techniques and/or information systems security.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-130

cryptographic algorithm  
A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, including a cryptographic key, and produces an output.
Related Term(s): key, encryption, decryption, symmetric key, asymmetric key

From: CNSSI 4009

cryptography  
The use of mathematical techniques to provide security services, such as confidentiality, data integrity, entity authentication, and data origin authentication.
Extended Definition: The art or science concerning the principles, means, and methods for converting plaintext into ciphertext and for restoring encrypted ciphertext to plaintext.
Related Term(s): plaintext, ciphertext, encryption, decryption

From: NIST SP 800-130; Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

cryptology  
The mathematical science that deals with cryptanalysis and cryptography.
Related Term(s): cryptanalysis, cryptography

From: CNSSI 4009

Customer Service and Technical Support  
Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Addresses problems, installs, configures, troubleshoots, and provides maintenance and training in response to customer requirements or inquiries (e.g., tiered-level customer support).

From: NICE Workforce Framework

cyber ecosystem  
The interconnected information infrastructure of interactions among persons, processes, data, and information and communications technologies, along with the environment and conditions that influence those interactions.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

cyber exercise  
A planned event during which an organization simulates a cyber disruption to develop or test capabilities such as preventing, detecting, mitigating, responding to or recovering from the disruption.

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program

cyber infrastructure  
An electronic information and communications systems and services and the information contained therein.
Extended Definition: The information and communications systems and services composed of all hardware and software that process, store, and communicate information, or any combination of all of these elements: • Processing includes the creation, access, modification, and destruction of information. • Storage includes paper, magnetic, electronic, and all other media types. • Communications include sharing and distribution of information.

Adapted from: NIPP

Cyber Operations  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Performs activities to gather evidence on criminal or foreign intelligence entities in order to mitigate possible or real-time threats, protect against espionage or insider threats, foreign sabotage, international terrorist activities, or to support other intelligence activities.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Cyber Operations Planning  
in the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Performs in-depth joint targeting and cyber planning process. Gathers information and develops detailed Operational Plans and Orders supporting requirements. Conducts strategic and operational-level planning across the full range of operations for integrated information and cyberspace operations

From: NICE Workforce Framework

cybersecurity  
The activity or process, ability or capability, or state whereby information and communications systems and the information contained therein are protected from and/or defended against damage, unauthorized use or modification, or exploitation.
Extended Definition: Strategy, policy, and standards regarding the security of and operations in cyberspace, and encompass[ing] the full range of threat reduction, vulnerability reduction, deterrence, international engagement, incident response, resiliency, and recovery policies and activities, including computer network operations, information assurance, law enforcement, diplomacy, military, and intelligence missions as they relate to the security and stability of the global information and communications infrastructure.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIPP, DHS National Preparedness Goal; White House Cyberspace Policy Review, May 2009

cyberspace  
The interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, that includes the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.

Adapted from: NSPD 54/HSPD -23, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Letter: D

Data Administration
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and administers databases and/or data management systems that allow for the storage, query, and utilization of data.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

data aggregation  
The process of gathering and combining data from different sources, so that the combined data reveals new information.
Extended Definition: The new information is more sensitive than the individual data elements themselves and the person who aggregates the data was not granted access to the totality of the information.
Related Term(s): data mining

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

data breach  
The unauthorized movement or disclosure of sensitive information to a party, usually outside the organization, that is not authorized to have or see the information.
Related Term(s): data loss, data theft, exfiltration

data integrity
The property that data is complete, intact, and trusted and has not been modified or destroyed in an unauthorized or accidental manner.
Related Term(s): integrity, system integrity

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-27

data leakage  
The accidental or intentional transfer and distribution of private and confidential information of an organization without its knowledge or the permission.
Synonym(s): data breach

data loss  
The result of unintentionally or accidentally deleting data, forgetting where it is stored, or exposure to an unauthorized party.
Related Term(s): data leakage, data theft

data loss prevention
A set of procedures and mechanisms to stop sensitive data from leaving a security boundary.
Related Term(s): data loss, data theft, data leak

Adapted from: Liu, S., & Kuhn, R. (2010, March/April). Data loss prevention. IEEE IT Professional, 11(2), pp. 10-13.

data mining  
The process or techniques used to analyze large sets of existing information to discover previously unrevealed patterns or correlations.
Related Term(s): data aggregation

Adapted from: DHS personnel

data spill
Synonym(s): data breach

data theft  
The deliberate or intentional act of stealing of information.
Related Term(s): data aggregation, data leakage, data loss

designed-in security
Synonym(s): Build Security In

digital forensics  
The processes and specialized techniques for gathering, retaining, and analyzing system-related data (digital evidence) for investigative purposes.
Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Collects, processes, preserves, analyzes, and presents computer-related evidence in support of network vulnerability, mitigation, and/or criminal, fraud, counterintelligence or law enforcement investigations.
Synonym(s): computer forensics, forensics

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NICE Workforce Framework

digital rights management  
A form of access control technology to protect and manage use of digital content or devices in accordance with the content or device provider's intentions.

disruption  
An event which causes unplanned interruption in operations or functions for an unacceptable length of time.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

dynamic attack surface  
The automated, on-the-fly changes of an information system's characteristics to thwart actions of an adversary.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

Letter: E

Education and Training
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts training of personnel within pertinent subject domain; develop, plan, coordinate, deliver, and/or evaluate training courses, methods, and techniques as appropriate.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

electronic signature 
Any mark in electronic form associated with an electronic document, applied with the intent to sign the document.
Related Term(s): digital signature

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

encipher  
To convert plaintext to ciphertext by means of a cryptographic system.
Synonym(s): encode, encrypt

From: CNSSI 4009

enterprise risk management  
A comprehensive approach to risk management that engages people, processes, and systems across an organization to improve the quality of decision making for managing risks that may hinder an organization’s ability to achieve its objectives.
Extended Definition: Involves identifying mission dependencies on enterprise capabilities, identifying and prioritizing risks due to defined threats, implementing countermeasures to provide both a static risk posture and an effective dynamic response to active threats; and assessing enterprise performance against threats and adjusts countermeasures as necessary.
Related Term(s): risk management, integrated risk management, risk

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009

exploit  
A technique to breach the security of a network or information system in violation of security policy.

Adapted from: ISO/IEC 27039 (draft), DHS personnel

Exploitation Analysis  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Analyzes collected information to identify vulnerabilities and potential for exploitation.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

exposure  
The condition of being unprotected, thereby allowing access to information or access to capabilities that an attacker can use to enter a system or network.

Adapted from: NCSD glossary

Letter: F

Failure  
The inability of a system or component to perform its required functions within specified performance requirements.

From: NCSD Glossary

Letter: H

hash value  
A numeric value resulting from applying a mathematical algorithm against a set of data such as a file.
Synonym(s): cryptographic hash value
Related Term(s): hashing

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

hashing  
A process of applying a mathematical algorithm against a set of data to produce a numeric value (a 'hash value') that represents the data.
Extended Definition: Mapping a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string to produce the hash value.
Related Term(s): hash value

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 201-2

hazard  
A natural or man-made source or cause of harm or difficulty.
Related Term(s): threat

From: DHS Risk Lexicon

Letter: I

ICT supply chain threat  
A man-made threat achieved through exploitation of the information and communications technology (ICT) system’s supply chain, including acquisition processes.
Related Term(s): supply chain, threat

From: DHS SCRM PMO

identity and access management  
The methods and processes used to manage subjects and their authentication and authorizations to access specific objects.

impact  
Synonym(s): consequence

incident  
An occurrence that actually or potentially results in adverse consequences to (adverse effects on) (poses a threat to) an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits and that may require a response action to mitigate the consequences.
Extended Definition: An occurrence that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.
Related Term(s): event

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, ISSG

incident management
The management and coordination of activities associated with an actual or potential occurrence of an event that may result in adverse consequences to information or information systems.

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, ISSG NCPS Target Architecture Glossary

incident response
The activities that address the short-term, direct effects of an incident and may also support short-term recovery.
Extended Definition: In the Workforce framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Responds to crisis or urgent situations within the pertinent domain to mitigate immediate and potential threats; uses mitigation, preparedness, and response and recovery approaches, as needed, to maximize survival of life, preservation of property, and information security. Investigates and analyzes all relevant response activities.
Synonym(s): response
Related Term(s): recovery

From: Workforce Framework

incident response plan
A set of predetermined and documented procedures to detect and respond to a cyber incident.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

indicator  
An occurrence or sign that an incident may have occurred or may be in progress.
Related Term(s): precursor

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-61 Rev 2 (DRAFT), ISSG V1.2 Database

Industrial Control System
An information system used to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution or to control infrastructure assets.
Related Term(s): Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, Operations Technology

Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIST SP 800-82

information and communication(s) technology
Any information technology, equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that processes, transmits, receives, or interchanges data or information.
Related Term(s): information technology

Adapted from: The Access Board's 2011 Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for Section 508

information assurance
The measures that protect and defend information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, and confidentiality.
Related Term(s): information security

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Information Assurance Compliance
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Oversees, evaluates, and supports the documentation, validation, and accreditation processes necessary to assure that new IT systems meet the organization's information assurance and security requirements; ensures appropriate treatment of risk, compliance, and assurance from internal and external perspectives.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

information security policy
An aggregate of directives, regulations, rules, and practices that prescribe how an organization manages, protects, and distributes information.
Related Term(s): security policy

From: CNSSI 4009; NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

information sharing  
An exchange of data, information, and/or knowledge to manage risks or respond to incidents.

Adapted from: NCSD glossary

information system resilience  
The ability of an information system to: (1) continue to operate under adverse conditions or stress, even if in a degraded or debilitated state, while maintaining essential operational capabilities; and (2) recover effectively in a timely manner.
Related Term(s): resilience

Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Information Systems Security Operations
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Oversees the information assurance program of an information system in or outside the network environment; may include procurement duties (e.g., Information Systems Security Officer).

From: NICE Workforce Framework

information technology  
Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that processes, transmits, receives, or interchanges data or information.
Related Term(s): information and communication(s) technology

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 rev. 4, based on 40 U.S.C. sec. 1401

inside( r) threat  
A person or group of persons within an organization who pose a potential risk through violating security policies.
Extended Definition: One or more individuals with the access and/or inside knowledge of a company, organization, or enterprise that would allow them to exploit the vulnerabilities of that entity's security, systems, services, products, or facilities with the intent to cause harm.
Related Term(s): outside( r) threat

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NIAC Final Report and Recommendations on the Insider Threat to Critical Infrastructure, 2008

integrated risk management  
The structured approach that enables an enterprise or organization to share risk information and risk analysis and to synchronize independent yet complementary risk management strategies to unify efforts across the enterprise.
Related Term(s): risk management, enterprise risk management

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon

integrity  
The property whereby information, an information system, or a component of a system has not been modified or destroyed in an unauthorized manner.
Extended Definition: A state in which information has remained unaltered from the point it was produced by a source, during transmission, storage, and eventual receipt by the destination.
Related Term(s): availability, confidentiality, data integrity, system integrity

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542, SANS; From SAFE-BioPharma Certificate Policy 2.5

interoperability  
The ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged.

Adapted from: IEEE Standard Computer Dictionary, DHS personnel

intrusion detection  
The process and methods for analyzing information from networks and information systems to determine if a security breach or security violation has occurred.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, ISO/IEC 27039 (draft)

Investigate  
a NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for the investigation of cyber events and/or crimes of IT systems, networks, and digital evidence

From: NICE Workforce Framework

investigation  
A systematic and formal inquiry into a qualified threat or incident using digital forensics and perhaps other traditional criminal inquiry techniques to determine the events that transpired and to collect evidence.
Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies tactics, techniques, and procedures for a full range of investigative tools and processes to include but not limited to interview and interrogation techniques, surveillance, counter surveillance, and surveillance detection, and appropriately balances the benefits of prosecution versus intelligence gathering.

Adapted from: ISSG V1.2 Database; Conrad, E., Misenauer, S., & Feldman, J. (2010). CISSP® Study Guide. Burlington, MA: Syngress; From: NICE Workforce

Letter: K

key pair  
A public key and its corresponding private key.
Extended Definition: Two mathematically related keys having the property that one key can be used to encrypt a message that can only be decrypted using the other key.
Related Term(s): private key, public key

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25

key resource  
A publicly or privately controlled asset necessary to sustain continuity of government and/or economic operations, or an asset that is of great historical significance.
Related Term(s): critical infrastructure

From: NCSD glossary

Knowledge Management
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Manages and administers processes and tools that enable the organization to identify, document, and access intellectual capital and information content.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Letter: L

Legal Advice and Advocacy
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Provides legally sound advice and recommendations to leadership and staff on a variety of relevant topics within the pertinent subject domain; advocates legal and policy changes and makes a case on behalf of client via a wide range of written and oral work products, including legal briefs and proceedings.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Letter: M

machine learning and evolution  
A field concerned with designing and developing artificial intelligence algorithms for automated knowledge discovery and innovation by information systems.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

malicious applet  
A small application program that is automatically downloaded and executed and that performs an unauthorized function on an information system.
Related Term(s): malicious code

From: CNSSI 4009

malicious code  
Program code intended to perform an unauthorized function or process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system.
Extended Definition: Includes software, firmware, and scripts.
Related Term(s): malicious logic

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009. NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

malicious logic  
Hardware, firmware, or software that is intentionally included or inserted in a system to perform an unauthorized function or process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system.
Related Term(s): malicious code

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

mitigation  
The application of one or more measures to reduce the likelihood of an unwanted occurrence and/or lessen its consequences.
Extended Definition: Implementing appropriate risk-reduction controls based on risk management priorities and analysis of alternatives.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

moving target defense
The presentation of a dynamic attack surface, increasing an adversary's work factor necessary to probe, attack, or maintain presence in a cyber target.

From: DHS personnel

Letter: N

network resilience  
The ability of a network to: (1) provide continuous operation (i.e., highly resistant to disruption and able to operate in a degraded mode if damaged); (2) recover effectively if failure does occur; and (3) scale to meet rapid or unpredictable demands.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Network Services
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Installs, configures, tests, operates, maintains, and manages networks and their firewalls, including hardware (e.g., hubs, bridges, switches, multiplexers, routers, cables, proxy servers, and protective distributor systems) and software that permit the sharing and transmission of all spectrum transmissions of information to support the security of information and information systems.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

non-repudiation
A property achieved through cryptographic methods to protect against an individual or entity falsely denying having performed a particular action related to data.
Extended Definition: Provides the capability to determine whether a given individual took a particular action such as creating information, sending a message, approving information, and receiving a message.
Related Term(s): integrity, authenticity

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Letter: O

object 
A passive information system-related entity containing or receiving information.
Related Term(s): subject, access, access control

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Operate & Maintain
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for providing the support, administration, and maintenance necessary to ensure effective and efficient IT system performance and security.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

operational exercise
An action-based exercise where personnel rehearse reactions to an incident scenario, drawing on their understanding of plans and procedures, roles, and responsibilities.
Extended Definition: Also referred to as operations-based exercise.

Adapted from: DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program

Operations Technology  
The hardware and software systems used to operate industrial control devices.
Related Term(s): Industrial Control System

Adapted from: DHS personnel

outside( r) threat  
A person or group of persons external to an organization who are not authorized to access its assets and pose a potential risk to the organization and its assets.
Related Term(s): inside( r) threat

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Oversight & Development
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas providing leadership, management, direction, and/or development and advocacy so that all individuals and the organization may effectively conduct cybersecurity work.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Letter: P

package substitution attack
Developers’ software management apps that use open source repositories like npm or PyPi typically favor external code libraries for their dependencies over internal ones, so they download a planted malicious duplicate and use the malicious package rather than the trusted one. Hackers can upload a malicious package and give it the same file name and a version number that’s higher than the authentic file stored internally. In many cases, developers either accidentally use the malicious library, or their build application automatically does so.

passive attack  
An actual assault perpetrated by an intentional threat source that attempts to learn or make use of information from a system, but does not attempt to alter the system, its resources, its data, or its operations.
Related Term(s): active attack

Adapted from: IETF RFC 4949, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1

poisoned supply chain attack
A compromise of a trusted security update vendor that results in the push of malware/backdoor to security appliances in client companies thereby proliferating to attack surface scope. Ex: Sunburst attack which targeted Solarwinds

precursor
An observable occurrence or sign that an attacker may be preparing to cause an incident.
Related Term(s): indicator

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-61 Rev 2 (DRAFT)

Preparedness  
The activities to build, sustain, and improve readiness capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from natural or manmade incidents.

Adapted from: NIPP

privacy  
The assurance that the confidentiality of, and access to, certain information about an entity is protected.
Extended Definition: The ability of individuals to understand and exercise control over how information about themselves may be used by others.

From: NIST SP 800-130; Adapted from: DHS personnel

private key  
A cryptographic key that must be kept confidential and is used to enable the operation of an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm.
Extended Definition: The secret part of an asymmetric key pair that is uniquely associated with an entity.
Related Term(s): public key, asymmetric cryptography

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1, FIPS 201-2, FIPS 140-2, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25

Protect & Defend  
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for the identification, analysis, and mitigation of threats to internal IT systems or networks.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

public key  
A cryptographic key that may be widely published and is used to enable the operation of an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm.
Extended Definition: The public part of an asymmetric key pair that is uniquely associated with an entity and that may be made public.
Related Term(s): private key, asymmetric cryptography

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1, FIPS 201-2, FIPS 140-2, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25

public key cryptography  
A branch of cryptography in which a cryptographic system or algorithms use two uniquely linked keys: a public key and a private key (a key pair).
Synonym(s): asymmetric cryptography, public key encryption

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 140-2, InCommon Glossary

Public Key Infrastructure  
A framework consisting of standards and services to enable secure, encrypted communication and authentication over potentially insecure networks such as the Internet.
Extended Definition: A framework and services for generating, producing, distributing, controlling, accounting for, and revoking (destroying) public key certificates.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, IETF RFC 2828, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Cross-certification Methodology 3.0, InCommon Glossary, Kantara Identity Assurance Framework 1100, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1

Letter: R

Recovery
The activities after an incident or event to restore essential services and operations in the short and medium term and fully restore all capabilities in the longer term.

Adapted from: NIPP

Red Team  
A group authorized and organized to emulate a potential adversary’s attack or exploitation capabilities against an enterprise’s cybersecurity posture.
Related Term(s): Blue Team, White Team

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Red Team exercise  
An exercise, reflecting real-world conditions, that is conducted as a simulated attempt by an adversary to attack or exploit vulnerabilities in an enterprise's information systems.
Related Term(s): cyber exercise

Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

redundancy  
Additional or alternative systems, sub-systems, assets, or processes that maintain a degree of overall functionality in case of loss or failure of another system, sub-system, asset, or process.

From: DHS Risk Lexicon

response  
The activities that address the short-term, direct effects of an incident and may also support short-term recovery.
Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, response encompasses both automated and manual activities.
Related Term(s): recovery

Adapted from: National Infrastructure Protection Plan, NCPS Target Architecture Glossary

risk
The potential for an unwanted or adverse outcome resulting from an incident, event, or occurrence, as determined by the likelihood that a particular threat will exploit a particular vulnerability, with the associated consequences.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NIPP and adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, SAFE-BioPharma Certificate Policy 2.5

risk analysis  
Definition: The systematic examination of the components and characteristics of risk.
Related Term(s): risk assessment, risk

From: DHS Risk Lexicon

risk assessment  
The product or process which collects information and assigns values to risks for the purpose of informing priorities, developing or comparing courses of action, and informing decision making.
Extended Definition: The appraisal of the risks facing an entity, asset, system, or network, organizational operations, individuals, geographic area, other organizations, or society, and includes determining the extent to which adverse circumstances or events could result in harmful consequences.
Related Term(s): risk analysis, risk

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

risk management  
The process of identifying, analyzing, assessing, and communicating risk and accepting, avoiding, transferring or controlling it to an acceptable level considering associated costs and benefits of any actions taken.
Extended Definition: Includes: 1) conducting a risk assessment; 2) implementing strategies to mitigate risks; 3) continuous monitoring of risk over time; and 4) documenting the overall risk management program.
Related Term(s): enterprise risk management, integrated risk management, risk

From: DHS Risk Lexicon and Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

risk-based data management 
A structured approach to managing risks to data and information by which an organization selects and applies appropriate security controls in compliance with policy and commensurate with the sensitivity and value of the data.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

rootkit  
A set of software tools with administrator-level access privileges installed on an information system and designed to hide the presence of the tools, maintain the access privileges, and conceal the activities conducted by the tools.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Letter: S

secret key  
A cryptographic key that is used for both encryption and decryption, enabling the operation of a symmetric key cryptography scheme.
Extended Definition: Also, a cryptographic algorithm that uses a single key (i.e., a secret key) for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext.
Related Term(s): symmetric key

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

Securely Provision
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas concerned with conceptualizing, designing, and building secure IT systems, with responsibility for some aspect of the systems' development.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

security automation  
The use of information technology in place of manual processes for cyber incident response and management.

Adapted from: DHS personnel

security policy
A rule or set of rules that govern the acceptable use of an organization's information and services to a level of acceptable risk and the means for protecting the organization's information assets.
Extended Definition: A rule or set of rules applied to an information system to provide security services.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIST SP 800-130, OASIS SAML Glossary 2.0

Security Program Management  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Manages information security (e.g., information security) implications within the organization, specific program, or other area of responsibility, to include strategic, personnel, infrastructure, policy enforcement, emergency planning, security awareness, and other resources (e.g., the role of a Chief Information Security Officer).

From: NICE Workforce Framework

situational awareness  
Comprehending information about the current and developing security posture and risks, based on information gathered, observation and analysis, and knowledge or experience.
Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, comprehending the current status and security posture with respect to availability, confidentiality, and integrity of networks, systems, users, and data, as well as projecting future states of these.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, DHS personnel, National Response Framework

software assurance  
The level of confidence that software is free from vulnerabilities, either intentionally designed into the software or accidentally inserted at any time during its lifecycle, and that the software functions in the intended manner.

From: CNSSI 4009

Software Assurance and Security Engineering  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and writes/codes new (or modifies existing) computer applications, software, or specialized utility programs following software assurance best practices.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

spam  
The abuse of electronic messaging systems to indiscriminately send unsolicited bulk messages.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

spillage  
Synonym(s): data spill, data breach

Spoofing  
Faking the sending address of a transmission to gain illegal [unauthorized] entry into a secure system.
Extended Definition: The deliberate inducement of a user or resource to take incorrect action. Note: Impersonating, masquerading, piggybacking, and mimicking are forms of spoofing.

From: CNSSI 4009

Strategic Planning and Policy Development  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies knowledge of priorities to define an entity.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

subject  
An individual, process, or device causing information to flow among objects or a change to the system state.
Extended Definition: An active entity.
Related Term(s): object, access, access control

Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4., CNSSI 4009

Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
A generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls to geographically dispersed assets over long distances.
Related Term(s): Industrial Control System

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009

supply chain  
A system of organizations, people, activities, information and resources, for creating and moving products including product components and/or services from suppliers through to their customers.
Related Term(s): supply chain risk management

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Supply Chain Risk Management  
The process of identifying, analyzing, and assessing supply chain risk and accepting, avoiding, transferring or controlling it to an acceptable level considering associated costs and benefits of any actions taken.
Related Term(s): supply chain

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSD 505

symmetric cryptography  
A branch of cryptography in which a cryptographic system or algorithms use the same secret key (a shared secret key).

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, SANS

symmetric key
A cryptographic key that is used to perform both the cryptographic operation and its inverse, for example to encrypt plaintext and decrypt ciphertext, or create a message authentication code and to verify the code.
Extended Definition: Also, a cryptographic algorithm that uses a single key (i.e., a secret key) for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext.
Related Term(s): secret key

From: CNSSI 4009

System Administration  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Installs, configures, troubleshoots, and maintains server configurations (hardware and software) to ensure their confidentiality, integrity, and availability; also manages accounts, firewalls, and patches; responsible for access control, passwords, and account creation and administration.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

system integrity
The attribute of an information system when it performs its intended function in an unimpaired manner, free from deliberate or inadvertent unauthorized manipulation of the system.
Related Term(s): integrity, data integrity

From: CNSSI 4009

Systems Development
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Works on the development phases of the systems development lifecycle.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Systems Requirements Planning  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Consults with customers to gather and evaluate functional requirements and translates these requirements into technical solutions; provides guidance to customers about applicability of information systems to meet business needs.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Systems Security Analysis
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts the integration/testing, operations, and maintenance of systems security.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Systems Security Architecture  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops system concepts and works on the capabilities phases of the systems development lifecycle; translates technology and environmental conditions (e.g., law and regulation) into system and security designs and processes.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Letter: T

tabletop exercise  
A discussion-based exercise where personnel meet in a classroom setting or breakout groups and are presented with a scenario to validate the content of plans, procedures, policies, cooperative agreements or other information for managing an incident.

Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program

tailored trustworthy space
A cyberspace environment that provides a user with confidence in its security, using automated mechanisms to ascertain security conditions and adjust the level of security based on the user's context and in the face of an evolving range of threats.

Adapted from: National Science and Technology Council's Trustworthy Cyberspace: Strategic Plan for the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Program

Targets  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies current knowledge of one or more regions, countries, non-state entities, and/or technologies.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Technology Research and Development 
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts technology assessment and integration processes; provides and supports a prototype capability and/or evaluates its utility.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Test and Evaluation
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and conducts tests of systems to evaluate compliance with specifications and requirements by applying principles and methods for cost-effective planning, evaluating, verifying, and validating of technical, functional, and performance characteristics (including interoperability) of systems or elements of systems incorporating information technology.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

threat  
A circumstance or event that has or indicates the potential to exploit vulnerabilities and to adversely impact (create adverse consequences for) organizational operations, organizational assets (including information and information systems), individuals, other organizations, or society.
Extended Definition: Includes an individual or group of individuals, entity such as an organization or a nation), action, or occurrence.

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NIPP, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

threat agent  
An individual, group, organization, or government that conducts or has the intent to conduct detrimental activities.
Related Term(s): adversary, attacker

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon

threat analysis  
The detailed evaluation of the characteristics of individual threats.
Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Identifies and assesses the capabilities and activities of cyber criminals or foreign intelligence entities; produces findings to help initialize or support law enforcement and counterintelligence investigations or activities.

Adapted from: DHS personnel; From NICE Workforce Framework

threat assessment  
The product or process of identifying or evaluating entities, actions, or occurrences, whether natural or man-made, that have or indicate the potential to harm life, information, operations, and/or property.
Related Term(s): threat analysis

From: DHS Risk Lexicon and adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53, Rev 4

ticket  
In access control, data that authenticates the identity of a client or a service and, together with a temporary encryption key (a session key), forms a credential.

Adapted from: IETF RFC 4120 Kerberos V5, July 2005; Conrad, E., Misenauer, S., & Feldman, J. (2010). CISSP® Study Guide. Burlington, MA: Syngress

traffic light protocol  
A set of designations employing four colors (RED, AMBER, GREEN, and WHITE) used to ensure that sensitive information is shared with the correct audience.

Adapted from: US-CERT

Trojan horse  
A computer program that appears to have a useful function, but also has a hidden and potentially malicious function that evades security mechanisms, sometimes by exploiting legitimate authorizations of a system entity that invokes the program.

From: CNSSI 4009

Letter: U

unauthorized access  
Any access that violates the stated security policy.

From: CNSSI 4009

Letter: V

virus  
A computer program that can replicate itself, infect a computer without permission or knowledge of the user, and then spread or propagate to another computer.
Related Term(s): macro virus

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

vulnerability  
A characteristic or specific weakness that renders an organization or asset (such as information or an information system) open to exploitation by a given threat or susceptible to a given hazard.
Extended Definition: Characteristic of location or security posture or of design, security procedures, internal controls, or the implementation of any of these that permit a threat or hazard to occur. Vulnerability (expressing degree of vulnerability): qualitative or quantitative expression of the level of susceptibility to harm when a threat or hazard is realized.
Related Term(s): weakness

Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4

Vulnerability Assessment and Management  
In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts assessments of threats and vulnerabilities, determines deviations from acceptable configurations, enterprise or local policy, assesses the level of risk, and develops and/or recommends appropriate mitigation countermeasures in operational and non-operational situations.

From: NICE Workforce Framework

Letter: W

weakness  
A shortcoming or imperfection in software code, design, architecture, or deployment that, under proper conditions, could become a vulnerability or contribute to the introduction of vulnerabilities.
Related Term(s): vulnerability

Adapted from: ITU-T X.1520 CWE, FY 2013 CIO FISMA Reporting Metrics

White Team
A group responsible for refereeing an engagement between a Red Team of mock attackers and a Blue Team of actual defenders of information systems.
Related Term(s): Blue Team, Red Team

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

whitelist
A list of entities that are considered trustworthy and are granted access or privileges.
Related Term(s): blacklist

Adapted from: DHS personnel

work factor
An estimate of the effort or time needed by a potential adversary, with specified expertise and resources, to overcome a protective measure.

Adapted from: CNSSI 4009

worm  
A self-replicating, self-propagating, self-contained program that uses networking mechanisms to spread itself, may consume computer resources destructively and bandwidth.  Worms can spread with lightning speed. One worm was able to infect hundreds of thousands of servers worldwide in less than 10 minutes.

From: CNSSI 4009