
Intermediate_difficulty_glossary


Autorun Worms
These are malicious programs that run via external storage devices. These programs take advantage of the autorun feature of Windows, hence they are known as autorun worms.

Content Spoofing
Is carried out by an attacker to trick their victims into visiting a fraudulent site that looks like the real one.

Email Spoofing
Is how an attacker crafts the header of a malicious email so that user is tricked into viewing it. This technique is typically used in phishing attacks.

Form Grabber
Malware designed to record sensitive information that the targeted user provides in forms on the Internet. These malware particularly target the victim’s financial information.

Instant Messaging (IM) Worm
Worm are malware that are capable of self-replicating and spreading across the Internet or the compromised network. Worms that spread via instant messaging networks are called IM worms.

Likejacking
Is a part of the clickjacking technique. It usually targets users of the social network community such as Facebook. Scammers share unusual or compelling posts or videos to trick users into liking or sharing them thus, spreading the scam to other users.

Mobile Phone Virus
This kind of virus is specifically crafted to run on mobile devices. These viruses can also spread from one infected mobile device to another.

Rogue Antivirus
A rogue antivirus, also known as scareware, is a fake program that disguises itself as a genuine software but performs malicious activities in user’s machine. The program may install malware on the system, steal user data, or trick the user to perform fraudulent transactions.

Reverse Social Engineering Attack
In this kind of cyberattack, the attacker convinces a user that they have a problem and that the attacker has a solution to the problem. For instance, an attacker creates a problem for the target. Then the attacker advertises themself as the solution provider, with an intention of luring the victim to divulge sensitive information.

SMiShing
Is a type of a phishing attack where targets are sent fake or malicious SMSs. These SMSs are designed to steal personal information from the target, or trick them into visiting a phishing website.

Twishing
Refers to phishing scams that are carried over Twitter. The attacker might tweet a post interesting or strange enough to trick users into visiting a fraudulent website and logging in with their credentials.

Wabbit
Is malicious program that keeps dropping its duplicate copies on the infected system. Unlike a worm, it does not spread across networks.

#############

Botnet Sinkhole
A machine that researchers use to collect data about a particular botnet. They can be used benignly or maliciously, most often to redirect bots to machines designated to research them.

Bug Bounty	
A reward for finding and reporting vulnerabilities and exploits to a company's digital assets, generally pertaining to websites, applications and operating systems. 

Conficker
Also known as "Downadup." This computer worm struck in 2008 and is no longer a threat, though it did infect millions of computers and establish a world wide botnet back in it's day. 

Cloud Access Security Brokers (CASB)
Technology that acts as a gatekeeper between an organization’s on-site infrastructure and a cloud provider's infrastructure, enforcing access control, auditing and monitoring, and data encryption. This allows the organization to broaden the reach of their security standards beyond their own infrastructure.

cyber teams 
Groups of professional or amateur penetration testing specialists who are tasked with evaluating and potentially improving the security stance of an organization. Common cyber teams include the red, blue and purple/white teams. A red team is often used as part of a multi-team penetration test (i.e. security evaluation), which is responsible for attacking the target which is being defended by the blue team. A purple team or white team is either used as a reference between the attack/red and defense/blue teams; or this team can be used as an interpreter of the results and activities of the red and blue teams in order to maximize their effectiveness in the final results.
 
Electronic Prescriptions for Controlled Substances (EPCS)
A set of regulations that give medical practitioners the option of prescribing controlled substances electronically and allow pharmacies to receive, dispense, and archive this data. By authenticating prescribers before they issue the medications, these policies help to reduce fraud and abuse of controlled substances, and ensure that prescriptions are transmitted without alteration.

IDaaS
An authentication infrastructure that lives in the cloud.

Locky
Released in 2016, this ransomware was delivered by email and made use of Microsoft Word macros to deliver its payload. Upon opening the Word file the page appeared to be full of garbage prompting the user to enable macros, at which time an encryption trojan was released.

Meltdown
A hardware vulnerability discovered in 2018 which exploits a condition within the design of modern computer processors. Meltdown allows for a rogue program to access all memory on a system without proper authorization.

Mirai
Large-scale compromise of networked devices running Linux, particularly those such as IP cameras and home routers, for the purpose of establishing a network to perpetrate attacks on high-profile targets. (See also DDoS Attacks, Botnet)

Petya	
Family of ransomware attacking Windows-based systems to encrypt the hard-drive, preventing system from booting.

PhishMe Button	
PhishMe is a security product vendor who assists the university report suspicious phishing emails to the Security Operations team. If you are using university mail, you can add the plug-in allowing you to seamlessly report activity you find to be nefarious, assisting the team further protect the community. 

POODLE	
Stands for "Padding Oracle On Downgraded Legacy Encryption" - exploit taking advantage of clients' fallback to SSL 3.0. (See also Man-in-the-Middle Attack)

payment card skimmers 
A malicious device used to read the contents of an ATM, debit or credit card when inserted into a POS (Point of Sale) payment system. A skimmer may be an internal component or an external addition. An attacker will attempt to use whatever means to imbed their skimmer into a payment system that will have the highest likelihood of not being detected and thus gather the most amount of financial information from victims. (See POS intrusions.)

POS (Point of Sale) intrusions — An attack that gains access to the POS (Point of Sale) devices at a retail outlet enabling an attacker to learn payment card information as well as other customer details. POS intrusions can occur against a traditional brick-and-mortar retail location as well as any online retail websites. (See payment card skimmers.)

Spectre	
Similar to Meltdown, this is a security fault in current computer processing units. Spectre allows for cybercriminals to trick a program into allowing access to arbitrary locations in a program's memory, and in turn possibly gaining sensitive user data.

Tinba
"Tiny Banker Trojan", malware targeting financial institution websites, establishing man-in-the-browser (link is external)attacks and network sniffing to steal users sensitive data, such as account login information and banking codes. (See network sniffing)

WannaCry
A ransomware attack in May 2017 that encrypted the data housed on infected windows computers and demanded payment for returning it.

Xafecopy	
Malware particularly found embedded in a variety of mobile apps, most commonly in battery optimizers, without the knowledge or consent of the user, ultimately subscribing the phone to a number of services which charge money directly to the user's mobile phone bill.


##############


Address Resolution Protocol Poisoning Attack
Is the point at which an attacker sends distorted ARP messages over a local area network (LAN) to connect an attacker’s MAC address with the IP address of an authentic PC or server on the system. When the attacker’s MAC address is connected, the attacker can obtain any messages coordinated to the authentic MAC address. “Despite it being a very common attack vector, mitigating ARP spoofing is extremely easy. We had our IT team enable DHCP snooping and dynamic ARP inspection at the VLAN level and globally.”

Blind Signature Scheme
Is a type of digital signature that conceals the identity of the message contents and the sender. In these schemes the sender’s message is concealed — or blinded — prior to the recipient signing it. Blind signature schemes are useful in applications where information on the sender is an important feature of the communication. Electronic voting is a real-world example of a blind signature scheme is a properly functioning electronic voting system. In this example, the sender (voter) and the signer (recipient, voting authority) are unrelated and the sender’s personal privacy and voting preference are paramount. The signature is considered valid enough to warrant the vote being recorded with confidence and the voter remains anonymous.Going further, should the voting authority be called upon to validate the information they received they are able to validate the message’s authenticity but unable to connect it with the sender (called unlinkability).

Bombe
The name Bombe generally refers to a device that British cryptologists used to decipher encrypted German military communications during World War II.  Bombe was used to reveal some of the settings of the Germans’ Enigma machine, which was used for the encryption.

Center for Internet Security Controls (CISC)
Is a nonprofit organization that leverages the power of its global membership to promulgate and share IT security guidelines. Adoption of their guidelines — the CIS Controls — aims to protect private and public enterprises from data breaches arising from known vulnerabilities.

Ciphertext Indistinguishability
Is a property of an encryption system that, if secure in this regard, means it generates ciphertexts that cannot be distinguished from one another regardless of the plaintext on which the ciphertext is generated.
The soundness of a cryptosystem with regards to ciphertext indistinguishability directly affects its security. This basic requirement means an adversary has no better chance of guessing that one out of a set of ciphertext messages is based on its plaintext message.
If the cryptosystem in use is secure, according to this concept, if an adversary can learn nothing by examining an intercepted message. If an adversary holds two or more encrypted messages, their ability to distinguish from between or among them successfully should be equal to or poorer than random guessing from a probability standpoint. If they hold two such messages, their ability to guess from between them should be ½ even upon close examination.

CISA (Certified Information Systems Auditor)
With regards to its focus on security auditing, the CISA is a professional certification for technology professionals much in the way that financial auditing is a core component for Certified Public Accountants (CPAs).

Clipper Chip
The Clipper chip was proposed by the Clinton administration as a counterterrorism measure to facilitate eavesdropping on suspects against whom the government secured a warrant. In the proposed scenario, following a court’s issuing of a warrant a suspect would have their chipset activated and federal, state, or local law enforcement would monitor the suspect’s conversations. The Clipper chip was unsuccessful due to several factors. Online privacy advocates brought to light that the chipset’s encryption algorithm (Skijack) was not publicly examined by the encryption community. They also suggested that the device’s key escrow system itself was vulnerable to a brute force that would enable the user to encrypt conversation but deprive authorities of the ability to listen in.
In addition, Clipper chip opponents stated that if only US manufacturers were required to include the chipset, then foreign-manufactured phones would be imported resulting in the program’s failure and material damage to US wireless phone manufacturers.

Credential Stuffing
Is the simplistic automated insertion of stolen usernames and passwords into web application login fields with the end goal of account takeover (ATO) and its attendant fraud. Credential stuffing relies on the shared secret model of user authentication, chiefly by enabling any person in the possession of static access credentials to present themselves as an authorized user.

Cybersquatting 
Setting up a domain of another person or company with the sole intentions of selling it to them later at a premium price.

Disruption Tolerant Networking (DTN)
A project of the US government’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to provide Wide Area Network (WAN) Internet access for the solar system, or reasonably so. 

Escrow Passwords
Escrow Passwords are ones kept by a trusted third party who may release them to a person under certain circumstances.

Fernando J. Corbató
An American pioneer in the field of computer science who is best known as being the father of the password.

GCFW, GCFA, GCIA, GCUX, GCIH
The GCFW, GCFA, GCIA, GCUX, GCIH, etc. are a sampling of advanced cybersecurity certifications offered by GIAC (SANS Institute). GCFW, etc. certification programs are intensive ones geared toward technical proficiency in specific areas. They individually cover firewalls/VPNs, IDS/IPS, Unix security, forensics, and incident response to name only a few such coverage areas. These certification programs of the larger, more prominent GIAC (SANS Institute) ones are geared to veteran professionals and are said to be held by a limited number of persons. GCFW, etc. are offered by the Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) entity that the for-profit SANS Institute created to support impartial professional certifications in the realm of information security. The requirements for these tests include two 100-question exams that are pen-book/open-Google taken online, and a fee.

Golden Ticket
Is a kind of cyberattack targeting the access control privileges of a Windows environment where Active Directory (AD) is in use. In a golden ticket attack, adversaries use Kerberos tickets to take over the key distribution service of a legitimate user. Such an attack has far-reaching consequences. The access privileges a golden ticket attack gives are widespread — including federating these privileges out of AD — and they are longterm as desired by the attacker. If control of one’s key distribution center (KDC) is lost, then adversaries can perform, assign themselves, or assign others virtually any domain-related tasks.

Identity as a Service (IDAAS)
Is a cloud service that provides identity management and cloud based authentication. Identity Management is the organizational process for ensuring the user is who they say they are and providing the proper access rights to the user. Cloud based authentication is the means in which a user authenticates themselves.

Identity Sprawl
Refers to the growth in the many separate, incompatible accounts a user creates to access online services. As the number of accounts increases, the user’s identity is said to spread, scatter, or “sprawl” almost needlessly as a more unified approach would do the opposite by consolidating identity. Examples of identity systems that fuse identity together are single sign-on (SSO) in the enterprise and social sign-on on Facebook or LinkedIn, so consumers can access other platforms with Facebook’ or LinkedIn’s federated identity capability.

Key Space (keyspace) 
Is the set of all valid, possible, distinct keys of a given cryptosystem.

Lawful Interception (LI)
Refers to the ability of law enforcement to eavesdrop on users of communication networks providing they have the authority to do so. It is the government’s legally-sanctioned access to private communications, such as telephone conversations, e-mail messages, direct messages, and the like. In the example of the US, the authorities citing just cause would bring a warrant to a mobile network carrier (MNC) requesting access to the channel and supporting data. If the state brings a compelling case as per law and precedent, the access would be conditionally granted. In jurisdictions where civil rights such as the right to privacy are unevenly protected, or are not protected, the circumstances might differ markedly from the US, developed-nation, or Western European experience. Indeed a North Korean citizen may have their conversations monitored often, and the DPRK has the legal authority to do it without a warrant due to the nature of the regime. It is not a matter of judgement, it’s a matter of law. The precise methods of lawful interception have changed since the era of hardline telephones but the legal principle is the same. The interception is targeted to an individual or individuals as opposed to a broad surveillance effort that would fence in a lot of data for filtering or storage.

Man-In-The-Browser Attack (MitB)
Utilize a trojan horse covertly installed on a computer system without being detected that modifies the user’s web transactions in real time, intercepting the messages in a public key exchange and replacing the targeted security keys with fake ones. Unlike a phishing attack, where an unsuspecting user is redirected to a web address other than their intended target, a MitB attack can occur when the user has typed a URL directly into the browser bar. MitB trojans may be detected and removed by antivirus software, and attacks countered using an out-of-brand transaction verification technique. MitB attacks are deployed via user script, a Browser Helper Object (BHO), or an insecure browser extension. The trojan enables its creator to circumvent the security features of the web browser. The trojan then facilitates the interception of calls between the user and the website they are engaging. Specifically the trojan can:
Alter website columns and fields, or add them
Alter financial transaction information including account details and purchase details
Suspend or seize an ongoing transaction in real time
Alter a website’s appearance
Alter the servers’ responses, such as thank-you pages
Seize data entered into fields on a website
Alter the transaction history if the user revisits the website

Meet-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attack
Is a kind of cryptanalytic attack where the attacker while avoiding detection uses some kind of space or time tradeoff to aid the attack.
Specifically, MitMs attempt to reduce the amount of difficulty required to carry out the assault in its original state. MitMs can take the form of dividing the target communication into two so that each piece can be addressed individually. It could mean transforming an attack requiring X amount of time into one requiring Y time and Z space. The aim is to significantly reduce the effort needed to perform a brute-force attack. Meet-in-the-middle and man-in-the-middle (MitMs, both) are often conflated. The difference between the two is that the “man” variant is where the attacker places themselves between the two users, eavesdropping or altering the conversation to carry out an attack. The “meet” variant is not interactive, and indeed the term “meet” refers to “let’s meet in the middle” or find middle ground by halving, for example, the perceived time that is required to crack encryption when the problem is first encountered.

Mitigation (Attack Mitigation)
Is the reduction in severity or seriousness of an event. In cybersecurity, mitigation is centered around strategies to limit the impact of a threat against data in custody. Steps:
Update and Upgrade Software Immediately
Defend Privileges and Accounts
Enforce Signed Software Execution Policies
Exercise a System Recovery Plan
Actively Manage Systems and Configurations
Continuously Hunt for Network Intrusions
Leverage Modern Hardware Security Features
Segregate Networks Using Application-Aware Defenses
Integrate Threat Reputation Services
Transition to Multi-Factor Authentication

Multiparty Computation (MPC)
Is a research area within cryptography whose application is generally limited to preserving the privacy of participants to a conversation from each other, rather than to preventing eavesdropping by an outsider.
MPC is a concept that gives different parties to a relationship the ability to compute data and arrive at a mutually desired result without requiring parties to the transaction to divulge their private data. Examples such as Shamir’s Key Sharing Algorithm have been used in problems requiring zero-knowledge proofs.
A noteworthy real-world application of MPC occurred 10 years ago in the Danish sugar beet market. In this example farmers bid for contracts at auction without having to reveal the price they were willing to sell for, or their economic position. Other use cases for MPC since 2015 include privately evaluating gender pay disparities, detecting tax fraud in Estonia, and preventing satellite collisions. Recent attempts have been made to leverage MPC for strong authentication. These implementations provide security on top of mutual secrets as opposed to ones leveraging public-key cryptography (PKC).  MPC is also known as secure multi-party computation or secure computation.

Offsite Data Protection (Vaulting)
Is a supplementary security process of storing a backup of data at an outside facility for the purposes of business continuity or disaster recovery.

Phone-as-a-Token Authentication
Includes methods of asserting one’s identity using their mobile device rather than a dedicated hardware token. A popular implantation, though not the only one, is that the phone serves as a One-Time Password (OTP) security token.

Push Authentication
Is a mobile-centric authentication whereby the service provider sends the user a notification over the most secure available communication channel. The user responds to the challenge by performing an action to verify their identity and access the service. Push authentication relies on device possession as the dominant factor.

Relying Party (RP)
Is a server that processes requests for access into online resources. Web applications are one kind of RP. RPs are also called “claims-aware” or “claims-based” applications since they support a device or person’s claim to be the legitimate party requesting access. Sometimes the RP can field the claim from a trusted third party such as an identity provider (IdP). In this case the RP fields the request, which takes the form of a token rather than the original request, and uses this chain of trust to grant access. For this reason, the nation of RPs working with IdPs makes possible identity federation and single sign-on (SSO) by paring down the individual assertions and claims the end user makes across supported systems.

Running Time
The running time of an algorithm refers to the length of time it takes for it to run as a function.

Salami slicing
Stealing tiny amounts of money from each transaction.

Secure, Quick, Reliable Login (SQRL)
Is an open standard for authenticating users to web services. Pronounced “squirrel”, it does not rely on shared secrets such as the username and password scheme. Instead, it utilizes public-key cryptography (PKC) and software on the user’s device to securely identify the user. In 2013 Steve Gibson of Gibson Research Corporation introduced SQRL. The technology requires an implementation by the service provider and either a mobile app or browser plugin on the user side. Users are required to remember just one password, delivering a user experience (UX akin to )single sign-on (SSO). Rather than releasing credentials, however, what the user enters does not unlock stored credentials. It actions a PKC exchange between the user and service using known information about the site with hashed values unique to the session and user. If using a mobile device to authenticate, the user is prompted to scan a QR code to initiate the cryptographic exchange. In either case, the session identifying token is comprised of the URL and additional characters.
SQEL is efficient for both enterprise and user. By exchanging unique public keys each time the user authenticates, there is no need whatsoever for the enterprise or service provider to implement username and password infrastructure. For users, SQRL negates the need for any password creation or management. It therefore avoids the weakness of the dominant form of shared secret based single-factor authentication (SFA). It also addresses, by limiting it, identity fragmentation or identity sprawl by not demanding the user own and manage passwords if the user’s preferred services adopt SQRL.

Security-as-a-Service (SECaaS)
Is an arrangement where a third-party provider such as security vendor or managed service provider (MSP) furnishes an enterprise with robust and reliable security infrastructure, features, and maintenance. SECaaS takes inspiration from Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). With SECaaS, an enterprise’s end users may be consuming services such as authentication and helpdesk support for it provided by this third party. Depending on its uses, SECaaS can be a suitable model for the willing enterprise since it effectively outsources the resources that on-premise security infrastructure requires. It also reallocates manpower and attention that on-premise infrastructure would demand. Some SECaaS offerings make this model easy to conceive of such as antivirus and spyware protection but stronger among the SECaaS spectrum are full authentication capabilities leveraging mobile device biometrics and public-key infrastructure (PKI). When offered as a service, these complete offerings pose a different answer to the enterprise choice of building or buying a well-architected solution by having one be available for purchase as a subscription. SECaaS implies the product’s high degree of pre-integration, interoperability, and proven deployability. If a SECaaS is not easily implemented or deployed, it already signals a degree of customer input that is already unwanted by nature of the desire to not host it on premise or build it.

Shamir’s Secret Sharing (SSS)
Is a key distribution algorithm. It is named for the well-known Israeli cryptographer Adi Shamir who co-invented the Rivest–Shamir–Adleman (RSA) algorithm. SSS divides a secret, such as a cryptokey, into parts called shares. The shares are distributed to a group of people who are parties to the conversation. The parts of the secret are brought together to reconstruct the secret, but an important feature of Shamir’s Secret Sharing is that the total number of shares is not needed to reconstruct the secret. A number less than the total number, called the threshold, is required. This helps avoid failures in decrypting the closely-held information should just one or a few parties be unavailable. SSS is practical in its solution to the key-sharing problems many arrangements face, and is therefore usually used to secure the keys to something that is encrypted or secure using other tools or algorithms. A simple illustration of SSS is that of a vault that only a corporate board may access. The passcode is encrypted by SSS, so a quorum (threshold) of board members is needed to authorize the display or release of the vault passcode. If a board member is traveling, but the threshold is met, SSS still allows for a reasonable assurance that the vault is secure.

Skipjack
Was proposed as the encryption algorithm in a US government-sponsored scheme of key escrow, and the cipher was provided for use in the Clipper chip, implemented in tamperproof hardware. Skipjack is used only for encryption; the key escrow is achieved through the use of a separate mechanism known as the Law Enforcement Access Field (LEAF).[5]

Splitting (key splitting)
Is a process where a cryptokey is divided into parts and encrypted at different locations to avoid it being reconstituted even if one part is intercepted and analyzed.

Ticket Granting Tickets (TGT)
A Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) or Ticket to Get Tickets (TGT) are files created by the key distribution center (KDC) portion of the Kerberos authentication protocol. They are used to grant users access to network resources. TGT files can provide secure data protection once the user and server authenticate them. Once a user is authenticated and has the TGT, they use it to obtain a service ticket from the Ticket Granting Service (TGS). It is then that they are granted access to the resources being protected. To protect from man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks, TGT files are encrypted. They also include the session key (and its expiration date) as well as a user’s IP address.

Trust On First Use (TOFU)
Is a security arrangement that pertains to when a device is connecting to a server it has not connected to before, one for which no earlier trust relationship exists. The device connects to the server with or without prompting the user.

Tunnel Mode
Is a method of sending data over the Internet where the data is encrypted and the original IP address information is also encrypted.  The Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) operates in Transport Mode or Tunnel Mode. In Tunnel Mode, ESP encrypts the data and  the IP header information.  The Internet Security (IPsec) protocol uses ESP and Authentication Header (AH) to secure data as it travels over the Internet in packets. ESP handles data encryption and some authentication of data. AH only provides authentication. Both protocols may be used independently or they may be grouped as IPsec. IPsec is used in virtual private networks (VPNs).

Typosquatting
Setting up a domain that is a misspelling of another domain.

Vernam Cipher
Is an algorithm invented in 1917 to encrypt teletype (TTY) messages.  So named for Gilbert Sandford Vernam, it is a symmetric cipher patented July 22, 1919. The Vernam Cipher combines plaintext (the original message) with pseudo-random series of polyalphabetic characters to form the ciphertext using an “exclusive or” (XOR) function. US Army Captain Joseph Mauborgne soon discovered that the cipher could be made much stronger by using truly random numbers printed on pads of paper. Streams of paper with the random numbers in that fashion became a process known as “one-time pad”. The Vernam using one-time pad is regarded as unbreakable.  On background, a teletype is a character printer connected to a telegraph that provides a user interface for people to communicate over various communications protocols such as dedicated or public wires, radio, or microwave.

Whitebox Encryption
Is a type of encryption that can be used for advanced mobile device protection. It is often implemented to protect private keys that are swimming in the rich operating system, rather than secured in the most trusted area of the device, which would be a hardware trusted platform module (TPM). Whitebox encryption prevents the exposure of valuable information by obfuscating the data but also storing it in random data and within the code itself. This makes it difficult to achieve malicious attacks on devices such as from malware, such rooting, and jailbreaking. By leveraging whitebox cryptography for both secure storage and cryptographic functions (e.g. signing), white box encryption — as part of a larger offering — can ensure authentication channels and private keys are kept safe from attacks targeted a device’s operating system. In instances where an app’s security does not store authentication keys in the TPM, the keys would be more vulnerable to specific attacks where the devices are overtaken and its contents analyzed. White-box encryption is software but it mimics the difficulty that key extraction would have were the keys stored in the TPM. A white-box attack is any kind of attack that attempts to remove or reveal the private keys held inside. White-box cryptography is a complex layer of encryption that makes the key removal difficult by driving up the costs and efforts to where a successful attack is infeasible.

Zeroization (Zeroisation) 
Is a method of erasing data from a resource should the resource fall outside the security boundary of its owner.


#############


Boss Key
Any key built into a game that quickly pauses the game and brings up a spreadsheet or other screen that looks like work so your boss doesn’t realize you were goofing off.

Blamestorming
A group discussion regarding the assigning of responsibility for a failure or mistake.

Blastware 
Is designed to automatically destroy or disable a system if you find it on your computer.

Carve-out
The selling off of assets.  Also known as: divestiture.
CKI
Refers to an error in the Chair Keyboard Interface. Think about what connects the chair to the keyboard.

Crapplet 
An applet, usually Java based, that is not worth anything.

Dead Tree 
A paper printout of an electronic file; frequently done single-sided and in color.

Endpoint Protections
Protections such as traps, antivirus, antispyware software.  Only endpoint security will block malware execution on the endpoint.

Evil Maid Attack
As the name probably suggests, an evil maid attack is a hack that requires physical access to a computer—the kind of access an evil maid might have while tidying his or her employer's office, for example. By having physical access, a hacker can install software to track your use and gain a doorway even to encrypted information.

Getting Burried
The maximum utilization of capacity both hardware or peopleware.

Ghostware
A stealthy piece of code that’s been cloaked, and so is used by criminals to sneak undetected on to your computer where it then hides other malicious code.

ID10T 
Another error, usually sounded out as Aye-Dee-Ten-Tee but seldom written as it should be pretty obvious what is being said.

HPKP (HTTP Public Key Pinning) Attack
1. Reconfiguring of server cert and CA cert to make users loose connectivity (DoS) 
2. Changing the existing cert to disconnect users and randsom the cert for money (randsomware)

Kludge
A poorly programmed piece of software, a piece of hardware cobbled together from spare parts, or a project plan created by someone with no real experience with the task at hand.

OS Fingerprinting
Using software version to focus attack to exploit known sofware vulns.

PEBKAC
Another helpdesk acronym that indicates the Problem Exists Between the Chair and the Keyboard, like a CKI error.

PICNIK” error
Problem In Chair, Not In Keyboard.

Pr0n
Also spelled with a zero and with intentional shifting of positions, it stands in the place of porn to indicate pornography, and was probably coined as an attempt to get around simple word filters.

TBH 
To be honest.

Thunking 
When a program must call a subroutine to complete a task, it is called thunking. 

Sneakernet
The old-fashioned way of transferring data using external, portable media by copying the data to disk and then walking it over somewhere.

Nonce
A portmanteau of number and once, nonce literally means "a number only used once." It's a string of numbers generated by a system to identify a user for a one-time-use session or specific task. After that session, or a set period of time, the number isn't used again.

Ping Sweep
An attack tool used to discover IP addresses.

RAT
RAT stands for Remote Access Tool or Remote Access Trojan. RATs are really scary when used as malware. An attacker who successfully installs a RAT on your computer can gain full control of your machine. There is also a legitimate business in RATs for people who want to access their office computer from home, and so on. The worst part about RATs? Many malicious ones are available in the internet's underground for sale or even for free, so attackers can be pretty unskilled and still use this sophisticated tool.

Request for Comments (RFC) 
Is a formal document from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) that is the result of committee drafting and subsequent review by interested parties for the proposed standardization of a proceedure on the internet. Some RFCs are informational in nature. 

Root-Cause Search
A process for determining the cause(s), human and otherwise, of the failure of something.

Salting
When protecting passwords or text, "hashing" (see above) is a fundamental process that turns the plaintext into garbled text. To make hashing even more effective, companies or individuals can add an extra series of random bytes, known as a "salt," to the password before the hashing process. This adds an extra layer of protection.

Shodan
It's been called "hacker's Google," and a "terrifying" search engine. Think of it as a Google, but for connected devices rather than websites. Using Shodan you can find unprotected webcams, baby monitors, printers, medical devices, gas pumps, and even wind turbines. While that's sounds terrifying, Shodan's value is precisely that it helps researchers find these devices and alert their owners so they can secure them.

Side channel attack
Your computer's hardware is always emitting a steady stream of barely-perceptible electrical signals. A side-channel attack seeks to identify patterns in these signals in order to find out what kind of computations the machine is doing. For example, a hacker "listening in" to your hard drive whirring away while generating a secret encryption key may be able to reconstruct that key, effectively stealing it, without your knowledge.

Verification (dump)
The process by which reporters and security researchers go through hacked data and make sure it's legitimate. This process is important to make sure the data is authentic, and the claims of anonymous hackers are true, and not just an attempt to get some notoriety or make some money scamming people on the dark web.

Unscheduled degrade
A help desk way of saying that it is "broken"


#############


***Note: This glossary below has original sourcing in Canada


Accountable COMSEC material
COMSEC material requiring control and accountability within the National COMSEC Material Control System (NCMCS) as directed by its Accounting Legend Code (ALC). Control and accountability is required because transfer or disclosure of this material could be detrimental to Canada's national interest. Also known as ACM.

Baseline security controls
The minimum mandatory protective mechanisms outlined by Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat (TBS) policy instruments to be used in interdepartmental IT security functions and information systems.

Beaconing
A common technique in which a threat actor uses malware to connect infrastructure to another system or network, bypassing firewall restrictions on incoming traffic.

Boundary interface
A network-layer interface between two zone interface points (ZIPs).

Browser-based exploitation
A misuse of legitimate browser components to execute malicious code. Simply visiting a website with hidden malicious code can result in exploitation.

Classified Information
A Government of Canada label for specific types of sensitive data that, if compromised, could cause harm to the national interest (e.g. national defence, relationships with other countries, economic interests).

Clearing
Applying logical techniques to sanitize data in all user-addressable storage locations to protect against simple ways of recovering data. This is done by overwriting data with a new value, or if overwriting is not supported, by using a menu option to reset the device to factory settings.

Compromising emanations
Unintentional signals that, if intercepted and analyzed, would disclose the information emanating from any information processing system or equipment.

COMSEC
Communications security (COMSEC) is the discipline of preventing unauthorized access to telecommunications information in readable form, while still delivering the information to the intended recipients. COMSEC is comprised of multiple disciplines such as Cryptographic Security, EMSEC (Emission Security), Transmission Security, and Physical Security.

COMSEC account custodian
The person responsible for the receipt, storage, access, distribution, accounting, disposal, and destruction of all COMSEC material charged to the COMSEC account. The custodian is appointed by the organization's COMSEC authority.

COMSEC incident
An occurrence that threatens, or potentially threatens, the security of classified or protected Government of Canada information as it is being stored, processed, transmitted, or received.

COMSEC material
An item designed to secure or authenticate telecommunications information (e.g. cryptographic keys, equipment, modules, devices, documents, hardware, firmware, or software the includes or describe cryptographic logic and other items that perform COMSEC functions).

Controlled cryptographic item
An unclassified secure telecommunications or information system, or any associated cryptographic component, governed by a set of control requirements in the National COMSEC Material Control System (NCMCS). The type of item is labelled in the NCMCS as a "controlled cryptographic item" or "CCI".

Declassify
An administrative process to remove classification markings, security designations, and handling conditions when information is no longer considered to be sensitive.

Departmental security control profile
A set of security controls that establishes an organization's minimum mandatory IT security requirements.

Departmental Security Officer
The individual responsible for a department’s or organization’s security program.

Departmental security requirement
Any security requirements prescribed by senior officials of a department that applies generally to its information systems.

Detection
The monitoring and analyzing of system events in order to identify unauthorized attempts to access system resources.

Emission security
The measures taken to reduce the risk of unauthorized interception of unintentional emissions from information technology equipment that processes classified data.

End-System
A network connected computer that, for a communication, is the end source or destination of a communication.

Equipment emanation
An electric field radiation that comes from the equipment as a result of processing or generating information.

Guard
A gateway that is placed between two networks, computers, or other information systems that operate at different security levels. The guard mediates all information transfers between the two levels so that no sensitive information from the higher security level is disclosed to the lower level. It also protects the integrity of data on the higher level.  

Injury
The damage to the national interests and non-national interests that business activities serve resulting from the compromise of IT assets.

Injury level
The severity of an injury, which is defined in five levels: very low, low, medium, high, very high.

Intellectual property
Legal rights that result from intellectual activity in the industrial, scientific, literary, and artistic fields. Examples of types of intellectual property include an author's copyright, trademark, and patents.

Internet-of-things
The network of everyday web-enabled devices that are capable of connecting and exchanging information between each other.

Key management
The procedures and mechanisms for generating, disseminating, replacing, storing, archiving, and destroying cryptographic key.

Network Security Zone
A networking environment with a well-defined boundary, a Network Security Zone Authority, and a standard level of weakness to network threats. Types of Zones are distinguished by security requirements for interfaces, traffic control, data protection, host configuration control, and network configuration control.

Overwrite
To write or copy new data over existing data.  Several overwrites required to make data retrieval prohibitively expensive and ensure the attacker has diminishing returns in data quality.

Point of Presence
An access point, location, or facility at which two or more different networks or communication devices connect with each other and the Internet. Also referred to as PoP.

Quantum computing
A quantum computer can process a vast number of calculations simultaneously. Whereas a classical computer works with ones and zeros, a quantum computer will have the advantage of using ones, zeros and “superpositions” of ones and zeros. Certain difficult tasks that have long been thought impossible for classical computers will be achieved quickly and efficiently by a quantum computer.

Redaction
A form of data sanitization for selected data-file elements (not to be confused with media sanitization, which addresses all data on media).

Sanitize
Sanitization is a process through which data is irreversibly removed from media. The storage media is left in a re-usable condition in accordance with IT security policy, but the data that was previously on it cannot be recovered or accessed.

Secure destruction
The destruction of information assets through one or more approved methods, carried out alone or in combination with erasing, to ensure that information cannot be retrieved.

Secure erasure
A digital sanitization process that uses tools and industry-standard commands (e.g. ATA security erase) to erase all accessible memory locations of a data storage device.

TEMPEST
The name for specifications and standards for limiting the strength of electromagnetic emanations from electrical and electronic equipment which lead to reduced vulnerability to eavesdropping. This term originated in the U.S. Department of Defense.

Unpatched application
A supported application that does not have the latest security updates and/or patches installed.

